[Music]
I wanna be the very best so I can be my
Beals
tickets them is my real test until my
wallet feels I will travel across the
man can afford a whole team on to
understand the power that I have to pay
for every month the phone build the
internet car payments and then there's
the house payment stop no just stop it
stop stop the song I'm just I'm just sad
now real life sucks
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
hello Internet welcome to game theory
you know what screw this I'm sick of
paying bills every month I'm sick of the
rat races and the ad pocalypse is it's
time to leave behind all that YouTube
drama and start traveling the land to
catch animals and make them fight in the
turtle blood sport to the death sorry I
meant to the faint to the faint it's
much better that's right today we're
talking about our favorite PETA
triggering game oh c'mon more
importantly though we're talking about
how to make dem poke a box
okay dollars but bogus grilled okay
bones
okay whatever they are the P with the
two weird lines in it you know what I
mean we've all had that dream though
right to be teleported to the world of
Pokemon armed with only a few pokeballs
and rise through the ranks to become a
pokemon champion we'd make friends wort
Team Rocket a couple times maybe hit on
misty a little bit or frock if you're
into having no eyes a great time or so
we'd like to think you see video games
tend to gloss over the rest of life that
comes along with you know living you'd
still have to eat sleep use the bathroom
or whatever the most convenient tree in
Viridian Forest is which means that all
those hard-earned pokey dollars you're
ripping out of the pockets of the bug
catcher after burning is Metapod to a
chris are gonna have to pay them build
so it got me thinking how rich would you
be if you became a pokemon champion what
do the earnings of a pokemon master
truly look like that's our question for
today so with that pokemon johto let's
go
Game Freak the developer behind Pokemon
doesn't give us basically anything for
the day-to-day expenses for a pokemon
trainer but they did model a lot of the
games geography and culture to places I
RL I'm sure gaijin Goomba did something
on this in some video in the past
hey Goomba give me your notes ah thanks
for a guy with no arms you throw
surprisingly well
so the regions of Kanto Johto and Hoenn
are based on the real life regions of
Kanto Kansai and Kyushu found in Japan
you Nova is based on New York Kalos is
northern France and a Lola is based off
Hawaii we even get hints that this is
actually an alternate version of our own
world Paris Expo c'mon entry from
firered directly references china to
quote the Pokedex
in China the spores are used this is
further shown with the first entry for
lieutenant Serge in the famed checker
that calls him the lightning American so
with both China and America confirmed as
countries in the game it seems safe to
assume that we can easily compare the
cost of living in Pokemon with the cost
of living in our own world that means we
need to figure out the exchange rates
from pokey dollars to real-life scrilla
to figure out some sort of yearly income
to get the most accurate conversion
we're actually gonna be starting by
converting pokey dollars to Japan's
currency the yen the reasons that I
wanted to start here is that in the
original Japanese versions of the games
the currency used is in fact yen and the
symbol used is of this line box line the
kanji for yen the Pokemon dollar was
just created for the English
translations of the games but staying
true to its yen roots it kept the
similar symbol the P with two lines
through it as well as the yen's lack of
decimals but that's not all we can even
get an insanely accurate conversion rate
of real yen to in-game yen using the
nice cold refreshing taste of lemonade
could have been you diet coke but you
never write me back come on
coke I need that sweet brown liquid in
my mouth phrasing throughout every
pokemon game in the series you can find
a vending machine or store selling three
different drinks bottled water soda and
lemonade these prices are consistent
across the entirety of the Pokemon
universe from pokemon red/blue all the
way to the newest re-release of pokemon
ultra sun and ultra move what we're most
interested in though is lemonade or in
the Japanese versions Miku soo or a yeah
sounds about right line line line line
line swoop swoop line swoop Naruto run
one legged balance and stupid L you see
when translating the game the drink was
actually turned to lemonade but the
Japanese versions translate closer to
mix oleh which is the french term that
translates to mixed with milk and
wouldn't you know it but you can
actually purchase mixed oleh at Pokemon
centers throughout Japan in real life
during one of my last trips to Japan I
actually visited one of these Pokemon
centers to sample some of the food
everything there is so super huge the
mix oleh in case you're wondering is a
fruity milk drink that reminds me a lot
of la see if you've ever had that it's
kind of a watery fruity yogurt drink but
as you would expect everything at the
Pokemon Center including to mix oleh
with soup
overpriced and totally tourists crappy
so instead to stay as true to the game
as possible I found that there were
vending machines actually selling hands
of mick soleil for the low low cost of
150 yen compare that to the in-game cost
for lemonade at 350 pokey dollars and
were actually able to get the conversion
rate of two point three three pokey
dollars to one yen basically what that
translates to is one polka dollar equal
to just under half of a real-world yen
or to translate that to dollars a
hundred pokey dollars is equal to about
39 US cents so now knowing that before
we calculate how much we earn as a
pokemon trainer we should figure out the
costs of being a pokemon trainer
thanks to Sun and Moon we know that the
Pokemon world functions on the same 24
hour time cycle that our own earth
functions on sun shows us that day in
the real life is day in-game and the
same with night so with that in mind I
headed over to how long to beat.com
which is a website that tracks how long
to beat games pretty self-explanatory
there to find the average time to beat a
typical Pokemon game that turned out to
be 52 hours so if you were to work the
average workday of eight hours your
journey would take you seven days but
seven days to be a fully fledged Pokemon
master doesn't seem right I mean sure in
game you might be able to speed run your
way to the top of the polka charts but
if we're looking at this seriously like
literally walking between cities
battling trainers spending time to train
up your Pokemon a trainer's journey to
the top is gonna last way longer than a
week so instead to figure this out
I followed a different trainers journey
ash from the anime sure we all joke that
Ash stayed ten years old for 20 years of
the show but if you stop and look at the
narration in context clues there is in
fact a clear passage of time that gives
us a sense of how long Ash's Kanto
journey takes him according to Takeshi
Sciuto creator of the Pokemon anime in
Pallet Town the rule is that new
trainers begin their journey on April
1st following their tenth birthday in
episode 9 the school of hard knocks we
actually hear that Ash has had two
months of experience and two badges with
two months of Pokemon experience you got
two badges with only three no
fast-forward to the episode holiday high
jinks which according to official
numeration is episode 39 that puts us at
Christmas of Ash's first year as traitor
another handful of episodes later we
have princess versus princess which we
know is set on March 3rd because it
specifically refers to
the celebration of Hina Matsuda also
known as dolls day or girls day a
special day in Japan dedicated to
celebrating women that trip to Cinnabar
Island for badge number seven takes
place during the early summer and
shortly thereafter we learned that
earning is eighth badge the indigo
league is only two months later the
Pokemon League only meets once a year
the exact top the indigo plateau exactly
two months from today which places the
yearly indigo league championships
around July or August
in short Ash and quite honestly gary who
we also see in showdown at the poke a
Corral that specific episode have their
first shot at being a true Pokemon
master a year in three months after they
started their journeys you don't know
that I've done that I bet I can
calculate how old ash is for the
entirety of the series if you want to
see that episode sometime in the near
future make sure you hit that subscribe
button and let me know in the comments
below
I want Ash's age in the next three
seconds three two if that was annoying
to you at least it wasn't a mid role
according to online cost to raise a
child calculators the cost of a single
parent raising a ten-year-old in the
Kanto region of Japan for 15 months is
gonna be about twelve thousand dollars
that translates to a million three
hundred twelve thousand 128 yen or just
over three million pokey dollars geez
but they're costing that much it's no
wonder that the parents are sending
their kids out into the woods to fight
dangerous creatures for the better part
of a year anyway those costs are broken
down like you see on screen but remember
this is if they're living at home Ash
stays in tents most nights and doesn't
get himself an education so we can
eliminate some of those larger ticket
costs let's even eliminate the cost of
clothing since the most ash has ever
gotten himself is like a new hat that
cuts our costs for his 15 month journey
in half now sitting at six thousand
dollars six hundred fifty six thousand
yen or 1.5 million poke a box that is a
whole bike and a half which doesn't make
it sound like that much but seriously
that is a four thousand dollar bike that
the shop owner just gives you for free
is the best free voucher ever okay so
six thousand dollars is the base cost of
your journey and of course leaving out
the prices of all Pokemon related gear
pokeballs revives potions food for the
Pokemon etc but then again Ashton's
get himself distracted on his journey so
his quest may take him a little bit
longer than your typical trainer it
should all balance out the end now it's
time to start beating up on some random
kids pets and stealing their cash the
way to earn money as a pokemon champion
is defeating other trainers and taken
their money I went through the entirety
of Pokemon Red and Blue adding up what
you earn from every battle each psychic
bug catcher and last out there and then
double check that amount via some player
guides for the games and if you go
undefeated against every random trainer
on your journey you conquer every gym
the first time and you send every member
of Team Rocket you would make a total of
drumroll please
three hundred twenty five thousand four
hundred fifty pokey dollars which
equates to one hundred and fifty six
thousand two hundred sixteen yen or only
one thousand four hundred twenty one
dollars and fifty seven cents uh
honestly I expected it to be much much
higher when putting this theory together
but I stopped and thought about it and
it actually makes a lot of sense just
take for instance the Elite Four which
should be the most profitable fights in
the game sure
earning five thousand pokey dollars per
fight sounds great but not so much when
you're shelling out three hundred fifty
dollars for a fee boss at lemonade the
Elite Four plus the rival battle gives
you a total of twenty-nine thousand
seven hundred ninety nine pokey dollars
which sounds great until you consider
that it's only eighty-five Kansas soda
from the vending machine
it converts to a whopping one hundred
and seventeen dollars and that is the
top of the top we are talking the elite
flipping four and don't forget this is
just the base adventure if you're doing
the Pokemon journey a second time I
don't think Team Rocket has the
turnaround time to take on the Silph
company every week plus misty isn't
gonna take you on again if you already
have her badge so if you take out the
special events that you most likely
wouldn't be able to do again like the
Silph company takeover in the gyms the
journey actually pumps out significantly
less one hundred and eighty seven
thousand sixty nine polka dollars or
seven hundred twenty nine dollars and
fifty-seven cents cool that is a hefty
pay kind literally cut in half and I'm
not even including the trainer's who
aren't gonna fight you again since you
beat them so badly the first time the
long story short here is that being a
pokemon trainer is the single worst
financial decision in gaming ever you
spend a year out of your life slaving
away climbing to the pinnacle of your
chosen field living outdoors and getting
shocked over and over and over again by
Pikachu and you end up with a net loss
of four thousand five hundred seventy
eight dollars and forty three cents you
lose money on your journey even if you
get to the end of it honestly it's like
pursuing a career in theater where most
places make you pay them to work there
good times
true story all this is probably why you
don't see too many adults out there
trying to become pokemon champions they
eventually have to support a family and
that is simply something that you can
do as a traveling battler unless you're
a gym leader or part of the Elite Four
there is no way to make a living off of
being a pokemon champion
chase your dreams just prepare to file
for bankruptcy later but hey that's just
a theory a game theory and we didn't
even talk about taxes don't even get me
started on taxes but now that we've
proved that my backup career isn't gonna
be backing me up quite as much as I
hoped it would I'm gonna have to figure
out a new way to save up some serious
bucks luckily I know about honey my
favorite free browser extension of the
sponsor for this episode is here to save
us some cash seriously they save me
money on practically everything that I
order online which means my hard-earned
polka dollars can buy more when I'm
ordering stuff from places like Amazon
Google Buy or wherever Snorlax candy
comes from 9 million people the
equivalent of 9 out of 10 theorists if
you go by subscriber numbers on this
channel have already downloaded honey
which automatically finds it applies
coupon and promo codes from all across
the internet on every single purchase
that you're making that means that you
don't have to do anything or download
anything from sketchy websites that you
may just end up getting free shipping or
a discount that you didn't know existed
on all the things that you are already
buying it's completely free it takes
only a few seconds to download and it
works immediately I mean look at this
this is a screenshot of me buying over a
thousand dollars worth of furniture for
the baby room and honey it saved me
nearly 400 bucks and that's it there are
no strings attached there is nothing
that you have to buy it is just
literally designed to save you money if
you want to give it a try which you
should because there's really no reason
not to you can download it for free in
just a couple of seconds right here at
join honey dot-com slash matpat ma TP 80
that's join honey calm / ma TP 80 or
you've been on YouTube a couple times
you know the link is in the first line
in the description
you've been here before you can do it
and while it might not save you enough
to make up for all that money you're
losing on the road to becoming a pokémon
champion you can certainly make those
polka jim dollars go a whole lot further
so get on it theorists be the best like
no one ever was at saving money online
and let honey help you do it
