[Music]
are you a polka fan in search of a
healthier more active lifestyle but
tired of all the run-of-the-mill diets
and gimmicky weight-loss programs so are
we so we combined the world of Pokemon
with the world of fitness pokemons go
cutting edge application that gets you
up and moving while giving you the
ability to capture your very own
pokemons eat augmented reality don't
just get up and go get up and pokemons
go Matt Matt's not licensed doctor
professional physician fresh will advice
concerning weakness I put my dog who
could eat my cars falling into ditches
troubled local authorities finally
Carmel exit which will whereas in
general come on go Mary not actually can
we put my go he's deadly our people my
go is that lease I'll get out of here my
family think inept I can help you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
hello Internet welcome to game theory
where if you are one of the thousands of
people who still want a game theory
hoodie even though they sold out the
first 24 hours well then stay tuned to
the end of today's episode because you
can still get one but you're gonna have
to act this week and this week only in
the meantime though today it's my goal
to throw pokey plums at you so don't get
too comfy cringe police I'm pulling out
all the pokey stops okay so I've
legitimately probably had my fill of
pokey puns for now no it's been over a
year since I last talked about Pokemon
go and for an app that probably most of
you assume is long dead be surprised by
some of these stats I came up with for
one it's raked in 1.2 billion dollars
since its launch that's almost 2 million
dollars a day and 1.4 times more than
Sun and Moon sales combined and here
we're all left wondering why everyone
doesn't want to do full-on game releases
anymore
that is why ladies and gentlemen it's
been downloaded 752 million times of
which 65 million still play at least
once a month and 5 million still play
every day which is resulted in an
astonishing eighty eight billion
captured oh c'mon most of who were then
promptly ground up be fed to the
strongest of their species in a
desperate attempt to evolve the darn
thing long story short well it may not
be as cool is finding the way or
discovering who touched your spaghetti
Pokemon go is still alive and well the
same however can't be said about its
players you see for the many titles
Pokemon Go has earned itself over the
last year and a half one of the ones you
won't see it talking about is deadliest
video game of all time it may sound
extreme but it's no joke whereas other
video games kill a player here they're
from things like blood clots forming
after extended play sessions with no
movement Pokemon go actively puts its
players right out into the line of fire
by making them do the unthinkable go
outside it's a game that gets you
walking around in public staring at your
phone which as you can imagine puts
players into some dangerous scenarios
muggings at night trespassing during the
day falling into ditches driving
distracted and of course walking into
traffic without looking is that there
have been so many
these types of stories that there are
whole websites dedicated to tracking the
number of accidents of the game as cause
but to be fair every dark cult area has
a silver lining my friends Pokemon go is
a game that gets its users to walk
around outside and that extra exercise
comes with a bunch of health benefits
which means regular players experience
longer and healthier lives so the
question that I want to solve today has
Pokemon go the unofficial deadliest game
in all of history actually killed more
people or saved more people now as I
mentioned a second ago there are actual
websites whose sole function is to
monitor deaths and injuries related to
Pokemon go all with sources provided no
less rich man if only all the research I
did for the show is that easy
also let me just say it right off the
noibat I'm using the US data here
because it'll be simpler for
calculations that we have coming up so
right away we know that Pokemon Go has
been associated with no less than eight
deaths eerily less the weight on the
same site we find that in st. Louis
Pokemon go players were responsible for
saving two people caught in a warehouse
fire so already we see the eternal
struggle of life and death that is game
on go that leaves our net death counter
at six from here though it starts to get
a bit tricky
despite the games repeated warnings and
its lack of functionality when traveling
above certain speeds far and away the
number one cause of injury from Pokemon
go is distracted driving drama I'm gonna
catch me a Lapras now obviously not all
accident reports are gonna cite the game
as the cause of the accident or even
know that the half was the thing that
caused the distraction the first place
so we're gonna have to do some smaller
scale research to figure out the game's
impact on traffic accidents and then
scale that data up to get an estimate of
the bigger picture luckily we're not
starting the process blind a study done
by researchers at Purdue University
titled death by Pokemon
the economic and human cost of using
apps while driving looked at the
increase in traffic accidents in the
hundred and forty eight days after the
app first launched for one County in
Indiana and despite the paper calling
them pok√©mons the entire time and I do
mean the entire time the research they
did here actually looks pretty darn good
they compared accidents around pokey
stops to accidents around gyms under the
observation that people can drive by and
swipe a polka stop to refill what they
call the player's ammunition they're
just pokeballs guys it's not like
they're being loaded into machine guns
or anything so kind of say that would be
pretty awesome
whereas gyms you can't really engage
with while driving you got to stand on
the street and you know pretend like
there's actual gameplay involved they
also do things like check to see how
traffic accidents significantly decrease
the further away from the pogo stop you
get during this period now obviously
there are a ton of variables to account
for here one of the biggest is the fact
that poka stops are in busy locations to
begin with which means that they're just
gonna be prone to heightened levels of
accidents from the get-go and it doesn't
really help that this paper is written
by people who so clearly want to prove
that the app is deadly I mean look at
the title of this quote-unquote
academic papers like they're titling an
episode of game theory or something but
it's the cleanest data that I could find
online so I'm going to use this as our
worst case scenario for deaths from
pokemon gold their study found that in a
county that usually gets about six
thousand traffic accidents per year
there were an additional one hundred and
thirty-four accidents resulting from
pokemon gold scaling that up to the
entire US which has about six million
three hundred thousand accidents per
year we get an additional one hundred
and forty thousand accidents in 2016
caused by the game a number that we then
have to slice into since it launched a
midway through the year so that's
seventy thousand extra crashes due to
Pokemon go in the u.s. in 2016 now for
2017 we have to remember that this study
only tracked the first five months of
the game by the end of 2016 people had
stopped playing it by the millions going
from 28 million daily users in July to
just 5 million daily users in December
where it's remained pretty consistent to
this day so it's safe to assume that
accidents caused by go went down by a
similar percentage thus let's say that
of those 140 thousand additional
accidents in a year only about 20% of
them existed in 2017 or another 28
thousand in total that's around a
hundred thousand additional accidents
caused by poke Mongo during the year and
a half and it's been out fatality by car
accident has a rate of 0.1 seven six
percent that means a hundred thousand
accidents times the fatality rate of
point zero zero one seven six equals a
rough estimate of a hundred and seventy
six driving deaths related to distracted
Pokemon goers had in the six from
earlier and we have a hundred and eighty
two us deaths in total all of this from
a mobile app we catch cute creatures and
give them candy candy made from the
flesh of their peers but still the
numbers don't lie you don't need to be a
gumshoes to figure out that that number
is too damn high
so can Pokemon go make up for the
hundred and eighty two fatalities that
it's helped cause it actually might
according to the US Department of Health
and the National Institute of Diabetes
and kidney disease inactivity kills 5.3
million people worldwide every year from
diabetes heart disease depression and
certain cancers but unlike mostly every
other video game other than just dance
and I don't know the two weeks one two
switch was having us bang our chests
like horny guerrillas Pokemon go
encourages players to get up and move
according to Microsoft Research in the
one month after launch between July and
August of 2016 US players of Pokemon go
walked an additional one hundred and
forty four billion steps on account of
this one game considering it takes about
five hundred million steps to walk to
the moon that's enough to walk to the
moon and back a hundred and forty four
times in the most extreme cases players
were walking four thousand more steps
every single day while they played on
average though the increase was a much
more modest 1473 extra steps so that
begs the question how do we turn extra
steps into human lives saved let me
explain what we know is a calorie is
simply a measurement of energy when
calories aren't used they're stored in
our body as glycogen or fat to use later
if you don't burn off the excess your
body hangs onto it consuming more food
leads to more calories that don't get
burned and that's basically how fat is
gained the more you have the higher your
chances for health problems and
increased odds of death on average
twenty
depp's equals 1 calorie meaning that if
you walk 10,000 steps in a day you're
gonna be burning about 500 calories now
according to a study conducted by Dwyer
Pesek son and company a person who walks
10,000 steps every single day can
increase their average lifespan by about
41 days considering that the average
lifespan of 79 years that's just a lot
of walking for an extra month of life
but whatever it gives us the conversion
of steps to human life that we need all
we need to do is calculate the total
number of steps walk by pokemon go
players for the past year and a half
which in turn will enable us to
calculate the number of years that it's
added to players lives and thus the
overall total number of lives saved that
first month had about 144 billion steps
right but as I stated earlier Pokemon go
lost about 80 percent of its daily
active users since then dropping from 28
million to 5 million meaning that the
number of steps has decreased
drastically as well so based on this
graph we can estimate that there were
about 10 million active daily users in
August and September of 2016 and ever
since the number as hovered around 5
million users give or take
knowing that on average daily user of
Pokemon go walks an additional 1473
steps per day we can calculate that in
August and September 61 days the 10
million users walk eight hundred and
ninety eight billion 530 million extra
steps and in the 15 months after that
with only 5 million daily active users
that's 457 days times 5 million users
times 1473 steps or three trillion 365
billion 805 million steps in total we're
talking about 4 trillion 408 billion 335
million additional steps taken since the
launch of the game and yes that number
is admittedly high but we're trying to
give both sides the benefit of the doubt
here and as you're about to see it
doesn't really matter we've almost
reached our final answer 79 years of
10,000 steps a day gets you 41 extra
days of life right well that would mean
that 79 years times 365 days times
10,000 steps 288 million three hundred
fifty thousand steps equals 41 days of
life or about seven million steps for
one extra day spent on this planet now
we just found that Pokemon go players
walked four trillion extra steps so
dividing by that seven million steps it
takes to earn ourselves an extra day of
existence we get six hundred twenty nine
thousand seven hundred and sixty two
extra days of human life just from
playing Pokemon go but that leads us to
the question that we've been asking
since the beginning how many actual
human lives does that translate to
ladies and gentlemen here's our grand
total six hundred twenty-nine thousand
seven hundred sixty-two days divided by
365 gives us one thousand seven hundred
twenty-five years of life divide that
number by the 79 year average lifespan
that a human gets and we derive drum
roll please drum roll I said please
please give me something to build up the
height okay 20 22 20 22 human lives
saved actually a hundred and sixty lives
short of that hundred and eighty-two
that we calculated that the game had
killed so yeah like those Purdue
researchers concluded the peril of
Pokemon go is definitely real
now in all seriousness obviously this
was all for fun Pokemon go has clearly
done a lot of good for its users not
only on the health side but it's also
encouraged community the week that
Pokemon go first came out was like the
most positive uplifting week of communal
gaming I've been a part of in years and
if I'm honestly pointing the finger of
blame at anything here it's actually
just using cell phones while driving in
general with 25% of all driving related
accidents being tied to using phones
while on the road the fact by the way
fatal car crashes were actually on the
decline reaching their lowest point in
five decades in 2011 but by 2015 16 and
17 the number has been back up on the
rise with many researchers attributing
it to the glut of new apps on phones
connect who knows driverless cars are
coming which means a whole new way to
grab another hundred freakin rad at us
from the driver's seat but hey that's
just a theory a game theory thanks for
ordering hoodies actually seriously a
quick note here many of you reached out
to me personally and the merch
they disappointed that you guys weren't
able to grab a game theory hoodie before
they all sold out and I totally
understand those things were gone in
less than 24 hours none of us none of us
could believe it we were so thrilled to
see you guys so excited about them so we
went back and figured out a solution if
you still want a hoodie and honestly I
don't blame you not only does it look
cool but I wear this thing non-stop it
is so soft we're actually making them
available for order again the link isn't
the top line of the description or via
the endcard link here in a second the
only thing I gotta warn you about though
is that it's gonna take a little bit of
time it's gonna take around three months
to get here and I know I know it's a
long time I hate how long it has to be
but that's because we're working with
high quality manufacturers these things
aren't just like a bunch of t-shirts
that you can just print off overnight
everything is highly customized it's all
embroidered it's built to last that's
also by everything we do has a limited
run it takes a long time for us to make
these so if you want a guaranteed hoodie
we're making just as many as you guys
pre-order and this absolutely will be
your last chance to get them so if you
are disappointed to miss out in those
first 24 hours well then pre-order yours
now after this week we are closing off
the list for good also what we're
talking about merch it is worth
mentioning that we do have a few
t-shirts and socks left and I do mean a
very limited amount as well as those
mysterious gold coins I keep hiking up
so if you want a crack at getting one of
those tokens now might actually be one
of the best odds you have of finding one
of those left in your package plus the
shirts are just hella cool they're soft
and thin they have a really cool design
that I think makes you look thin and
stylish so this is pretty much your last
warning if you don't preorder a hoodie
or buy a t-shirt or socks in the next
week they're all pretty much gone for
good including those mysterious gold
coins which again are going to be
valuable sometime later this year you
want to find one of those things and
this is your last chance to get one so
place your orders now link is on screen
link is in the top of the description
not only will you look good you'll feel
good it's a new year get yourself some
new gear so now if you'll excuse me
tired of talking about people dying for
a week so maybe we take a few weeks off
of that see you next week
